all right couple of points about the
bench press I'm just going to go over
the basic technique of how to do this
exercise correctly because it's probably
the most popular exercise in the gym as
probably else and most commonly watched
exercise in the gym so go over the
technique and the points first of all
the way to set up for the exercise it's
important when I get in I'm not going to
set myself up I have a flat back so you
hear somebody make use of our bench prep
like give you your entire back flat
against the bench that's wrong that's
the worst thing that you can do because
it doesn't set yourself up for a proper
injury free movement when you do this
you're going to want to have space
underneath your back and between your
back of the bench so it's going to look
something like this well then have a
tuck position like this fit some space
underneath there in my back what this
does is it helps me pull my shoulder
blades back it also creates nice space
and where my feet can drive into the
floor we need that the reason why this
is okay is because it's a horizontal
pushing action since you're pushing from
the floor and it's a horizontal press
you're not going to have any sort of
stress on the spine that's not what's
bearing the load here what's bearing the
lower is actually your shoulders your
shoulder blades in your upper back so
you don't have to worry about that it's
not the same as doing an upright press
or standing press where you have too
much of an arch in the back totally
different having said that the next
thing you gotta think about is your hand
position you don't want a grip that's
far too wide you have a grip that's too
wide it's all about the angles that you
create so we go 182
90 degrees here so for me I like a grip
that's a little bit narrower than usual
but I like to put my pinky fingers on
the Rings here set my shoulders and this
is my first position here now bar PAP is
the third part of this now with the bar
path you want to make sure that we're
not pressing the bar in directly in a
straight line we press the bar on a
straight line that it's going to
actually come and create shear forces on
our body shear forces on our shoulders
and our elbows because the bar is not
moving the lane that it corresponds to
your body moving so what I mean by that
is you'll see a lot of people come in
and do something like this you'll set up
right everything looks good your
shoulder blades are pulled back your
hands are on bar and then they do
something like this you press the bar
down and then press it straight up now
if you look at the bar in correlation to
my shoulder and to my arm there's not a
vertical line underneath it the bars
coming down over this space right here
which doesn't mimic the angle my arm
right here at the bottom of the lift my
elbows underneath the bar which is a
good thing I'm going to want to press so
that my whole arm stays under the bar as
well so right here the bars over my
shoulder my whole arm cases that support
so if you notice I'm sort of pushing the
bar backwards as I press
and this way my forearm stays under the
bike and my upper arm stays under the
bar at the top left as well one thing
that I forgot to mention as well is that
arched position that tux position where
my chest is up high also helps because
the fact that it takes away from your
shoulder stress if you look at the
difference with a flat back my chest is
sunken now so even if I keep my hands in
the same place and lower the arms my
torso look at how much lower my arm my
elbow sinks below the level of the mesh
that creates a lot of stress right here
on the shoulder you don't want it now if
I get set up properly raise my chest now
the bar doesn't have to travel quite as
far and when you're under serious amount
of load those couple inches difference
now where my elbow is towards the floor
it's a lot higher than it used to be and
those couple inches of difference could
make a huge effect on your shoulder
health especially when you're doing your
benchpress for reps and reps and reps so
those are a few pointers about how to do
the bench press correctly so you don't
get injured and so you don't have too
much stress or chronic pain that
develops as a result of doing this
exercise it's not my favorite exercise
in the world shouldn't be as prioritized
as exercises like the deadlift or the
pull-up or the squat but if you're going
to do this it might as well make sense
to learn how to do it right so that's it
you